---
title: Computational Archaeology of Fictional Space
people:
- Dennis Yi Tenen
type: research paper
snippet: 185
published: true
image: lit-space.png
updates:

- date: 2018-05-05
  type: publication
  text: "Findings appear in  [*New Literary History*](http://muse.jhu.edu.ezproxy.cul.columbia.edu/article/69122049), no. 1 (April 20, 2018): 119–47."

---

Space is a hard thing to pin down. It identifies dimensional continuity and a
topography, that is, a relationship between objects. It is also itself an
object: a limit-defining quantity even in its most abstract sense. "O God, I
could be bounded in a nutshell and count myself a king of infinite space, were
it that I have bad dreams," Hamlet says of his ambition and his dreams. A
human palm can be a part of the body or a map. A mirror is a piece of
furniture and a frame for reflection. Under extreme magnification, the head of
a pin appears a vast and mountainous terrain, home to angels and bacterial
detritus. The characterization of diegetic---let us call it also virtual and
fictional---space presents further difficulties. A stretch of land in fiction
measures also a stretch of the imagination. These units do not always have
names or explicit boundaries. Vladimir and Estragon wait for Godot: "*A
country road. A tree.*" Two vectors are enough to situate the world. A road
gives us the X and a tree the Y axis: an infinity in a nutshell.

In this paper I propose to reconsider theories of diegetic space which rely on
explicit framing (i.e. "two people walk into a room" or "in Spain"). Rather
than looking for maps, I define space in terms of grammatical categories
denoting objects. The emphasis on objects leads to a method for literary
archaeology, informed by cognitive theory and anthropology. If the universe is
made of atoms, a fictional world is also made up of atomic relationships that
form basic, stable configurations, or, what I call, *narratological
primitives.* I construct several such basic spatial buildings blocks
here---*diegetic density* and *clutter distance*. Their application to a
well-explored body of Victorian novels challenges several long standing
historical intuitions related to the development of material culture in the
nineteenth century.
