---
title: Vaccines in the Medical Imagination
people:
- Rishi Goyal
- Dennis Yi Tenen
type: research paper
image: vaccine.jpg
published: true
updates:

- date: 2020-08-17
  type: grant
  text: "Columbia World Projects contributes generous start-up funds, editorial, and project management support."

---

Public outreach around vaccination assumes an implied faith in the efficacy of good science.
Yet, modern vaccine hesitancy has experienced explosive growth, made more acute by the COVID-19
pandemic. In the anticipation of the coming vaccine efforts, we propose to assemble a coalition
of interested parties---vaccine makers, researchers, community leaders, and public health
officials---to re-imagine the medium and the message of public outreach on vaccination. Rather
than intuition, we are guided by data-driven insights into the language and culture of
contemporary "medical choice" movements, using cutting-edge technology such as natural language
processing and machine learning. Together, we aim to increase acceptance by shifting the very
terms of the national conversation. Join us in this campaign to support public health.

Ethics charter [here][10].

[10]: https://docs.google.com/document/d/1CySyCm6Jz1L53egGS6ex_SANGJydnTbNx6IvQnZDxxI/edit?usp=sharing

## Call for Participation

The [Literary Modeling and Visualization Workshop][1] at Columbia University is accepting
applications from student participants interested in contributing to it's first collaborative
research project, entitled Vaccines in the Medical Imagination, led by Professors [Rishi
Goyal][2] (Director of Medicine Literature and Society Program and Assistant Professor of
Medicine) and [Dennis Yi Tenen][3] (Associate Professor, English and Comparative Literature).

As the United States is under threat of losing its Measles elimination status, this project
combines expertise in the Medical Humanities and Computational Literary Analysis to understand
the cultural roots of vaccine hesitancy. By investigating the literary tropes surrounding
vaccination in popular press and in medicine, we will seek to explore how science and the
perception of science are continually shaped by metaphors, which persist within the medical
imaginary.

No prior experience in the medical humanities or formal literary analysis is required. We will
be meeting weekly to review relevant literature, explore archives, draft, diagram, code, and
eventually co-author. Students will have the chance to deepen their existing research skills,
as well as to expand into adjacent methods and approaches. You must be generally available on
Fridays 1-3pm.

Contact either of the faculty leads if you are interested in participating.

[1]: https://xpmethod.plaintext.in/projects/literary-modeling.html
[2]: http://icls.columbia.edu/author/0000000039/
[3]: http://denten.plaintext.in/

## Advisory Board

- [Noémie Elhadad][4], Associate Professor of Biomedical Informatics (Columbia University).
- [Kathleen McKeown][5], Henry and Gertrude Rothschild Professor of Computer Science, Founding
Director of Columbia's Data Science Institute (Columbia University).

[4]: https://www.dbmi.columbia.edu/profile/noemie-elhadad/
[5]: http://www.cs.columbia.edu/~kathy/
