---
title: Vaccines in the Medical Imagination
tags:
- Rishi Goyal
- Dennis Yi Tenen
type: research paper
image: vaccine.jpg
published: true
updates:

---

The [Literary Modeling and Visualization Workshop][1] at Columbia University is accepting
applications from student participants interested in contributing to it's first collaborative
research project, entitled Vaccines in the Medical Imagination, led by Professors [Rishi
Goyal][2] (Director of Medicine Literature and Society Program and Assistant Professor of
Medicine) and [Dennis Yi Tenen][3] (Associate Professor, English and Comparative Literature).

As the United States is under threat of losing its Measles elimination status, this project
combines expertise in the Medical Humanities and Computational Literary Analysis to understand
the cultural roots of vaccine hesitancy. By investigating the literary tropes surrounding
vaccination in popular press and in medicine, we will seek to explore how science and the
perception of science are continually shaped by metaphors, which persist within the medical
imaginary.

No prior experience in the medical humanities or formal literary analysis is required. We will
be meeting weekly to review relevant literature, explore archives, draft, diagram, code, and
eventually co-author. Students will have the chance to deepen their existing research skills,
as well as to expand into adjacent methods and approaches. You must be generally available on
Fridays 1-3pm.

Contact either of the faculty leads if you are interested in participating.

## Schedule

1. Tuesday March 23rd, 1-3pm Butler 208b

- Discuss reading and previous findings.
- corpus? BYU Corpus of American English which has interface into Google Books
- BMJ (JSTOR), NEJM, Nature, PubMed. Needs contact. ScienceDirect API? Does it work with NLTK?
- NHS survey? Colleen Major Head Electronic Resources Management at CUL about Lancet or NEJM.
- environment? Isha Shah springboard into Data Club?

2. April 10th, 11am-1pm Butler 208b


3. May 8th, 1-3pm Butler 208b

[1]: https://xpmethod.plaintext.in/projects/literary-modeling.html
[2]: http://icls.columbia.edu/author/0000000039/
[3]: http://denten.plaintext.in/
