---
title: Possessed by Property
people:
- Beth Cortese
- Julie Hastrup-Markussen
- Ross Deans Kristensen-McLachlan
- Jakob Ladegaard
- Dennis Yi Tenen
type: research paper
image: clarissa.jpg
github: lit-mod-viz/possessed-by-property
snippet: 185
published: true
updates:

---

> And now, with regard to the worldly matters which I shall die possessed of, as well as to
those which of right appertain to me, either by the will of my said grandfather, or otherwise;
thus do I dispose of them. -- Samuel Richardson: *Clarissa*, Vol. 9, letter XXXIII.

The reading of the grandfather’s will in Samuel Richardson’s *Clarissa* sets in motion a crisis
of ownership in which Clarissa’s "father’s living will" seeks to control her "grandfather’s
dead one" (Vol. 1, letter XLIV). Clarissa becomes estranged from her family when she inherits
an estate from her grandfather, who thereby bypasses her father and uncles as well as her
siblings. The novel ends with Clarissa’s will, in which her property, guilt, and moral justice
are distributed after her death. Bracketed by these two last wills, the novel can be read as a
sustained reflection on the relationship between possession of property, inheritance, and
agency.

In a joint effort between Columbia English Department's [Literary Modeling and Visualization
Lab](https://xpmethod.plaintext.in/projects/literary-modeling.html) and the [Unearned
Wealth](http://projects.au.dk/unearned-wealth/) research project at the Department of
Comparative Literature, Aarhus University, Denmark, we use computational tools to investigate
the dynamics of property transference along familial gender lines in Richardson's *Clarissa*.
We read the work in the context of legal history as well as contemporary economic criticism to
discover the ways in which fiction departs from legal practice, finding structural difference
between actual and affective possession.




