---
layout: event
title: "Small Axe Archipelagos"
location: "Studio@Butler"
tags:
- Kaiama Glover
- Kelly Josephs
- Alex Gil
- Dennis Tenen
- Susanna Allés
- Manan Ahmed
type: encounter
prompt: "How do we reduce the production cost for the SX:Archipelagos journal while preserving the quality of Small Axe, and produce a repository copy, a print-on-demand copy and a web version of the journal?"
categories:
- events
- minimal-computing
hour: 3pm
images:
 - archipelagos.jpg
 - sxa.jpg
---

## Updates

`Spring 2015` The project has been funded with generous support from
the NEH [Digital Humanities Start-Up Grant
Award](http://www.neh.gov/divisions/odh/grant-news/announcing-17-digital-humanities-start-grant-awards-march-2015)

## SX Archipelagos

Kaiama Glover, Associate Professor of French at Barnard, Alex Gil and Kelly
Josephs, Director, York College Honors Program, and Associate Professor of
English at CUNY, presented on the new stage of development of [Small
Axe](http://smallaxe.net/): SX:Archipelagos, and worked with xp-methods to
re-imagine a workflow for journal publication around Dennis Tenen's and Grant
Wythoff's "[Sustainable Authorship in Plain Text using Pandoc and
Markdown](http://programminghistorian.org/lessons/sustainable-authorship-in-plain-text-using-pandoc-and-markdown)." 

As pressures mount on academic journals, the need to reduce costs while
providing manageable workflows and multivalent outputs has increased. The Small
Axe journal has weathered two decades as the flagship journal for Caribbean
Studies and thus provides a great platform for experimentation around an
established journal, as opposed to new experiments that must build prestige
while trying out new workflows. SX:Archipelagos was born as that experimental
branch. The goal of SX:A is to publish a combination of articles, project
reviews and digital humanities projects with low periodicity and under reduced
cost. This encounter focused on the publication of the articles. 

Kelly Josephs went over the history of Small Axe, and the current workflow for
article publication (Fig. Before). The team carefully went over the workflow
for publication isolating the pieces of the workflow that could be reduced if
we adopted markdown as opposed to Word as the central file format of production
and revision. Leveraging the power of pandoc and pre-set stylesheets, the team
concluded that we could consolidate much of the copy-setting and editorial work
on the copy-editor, with minimal social friction (Fig. After).

The next stage of the project is to produce high-quality versions of a past
issue of Small Axe using this new workflow in a few hours.
