---
layout: event
title: "Rens Bod"
location: "Heyman Center for the Humanities, Second Floor Common Room"
tags: 
type: lecture
prompt: "The common wisdom that the humanities are moving towards science when they search for patterns is mistaken. Instead, the search for patterns has been a continuous line in the humanities from Antiquity onwards."
categories: events
hour: 6:15pm
---

## The Longue Durée of Empiricism in the Humanities: Patterns versus Interpretations

How empirical are the humanities? For over a century, empiricism has almost exclusively been attributed to the sciences. The sciences search for patterns and laws, while the humanities aim at understanding unique events. The sciences try to explain the world, while the humanities aim at interpreting it. The sciences aim for objectivity while the humanities are subjective and speculative. These oppositions are much older than C.P. Snow’s well-known two cultures debate; they can be traced back to Antiquity and are -- quite surprisingly -- rooted in the disciplines that we nowadays call ‘humanities’. From at least the third century BCE onwards, there have been two kinds of practices in philology, historiography, poetics, the study of art and the study of music. On the one hand people searched for patterns and regularities, while on the other hand they searched for interpretations and the exceptional. Both approaches have not disappeared from the humanities since then. Rens Bod, professor at University of Amsterdam, will sketch the longue durée of the pattern-seeking tradition in the humanities and compare it to the interpretative tradition. Bod will argue that interpretations were not always in opposition to pattern-seeking but were often constructed on the patterns found. The common wisdom that the humanities are moving towards science when they search for patterns is mistaken. Instead, the search for patterns has been a continuous line in the humanities from Antiquity onwards.

Event is free and open to the public. Seating is first come, first served

More info: <http://heymancenter.org/events/on-method-the-longue-duree-of-empiricism-in-the-humanities-patterns-versus/>