---
layout: event
title: "Empowering Reason w/ Errikos Pitsos, CEO of Kialo.com Mumbai"
location: "Mumbai, India"
type: encounter
prompt: "Join us for a talk about online democracy and deliberation with Errikos
Pitsos, founder of Kialo.com, a platform for \"empowering reason\" and \"where
people with opposing views can meet and understand each other's thinking.\""

categories: events
images:
 - kialo.png
hour: 3:00pm
location: "Butler Library 208b"

---


## What is Kialo?

Kialo is a visual reasoning platform. It offers an easy way to get to
the heart of complex topics. Specifically designed to streamline multi-party
deliberations, Kialo conveys all arguments and points of view using intuitive
argument trees.

## What do you mean by 'argument tree'?

The basic concept of Kialo is to represent a discussion as a tree of pro and
con arguments. At the top is the discussion thesis, supported and weakened by
Pros and Cons underneath. These arguments can have their own Pros and Cons.
The validity of the thesis is determined by the arguments and their respective
child arguments below, all the way to the base of the tree.

## What can I use Kialo for?

Kialo can help you make an important business decision, give structure to a
major political disagreement, or let your classroom consolidate new knowledge
through interactive class debates.

##  Show me some stats

Kialo has yielded quick decisions with 100 arguments written by six people in
30 mins and major policy debates with over 5000 arguments on a single topic
over 3 months.

## Why did we create Kialo?

Kialo was created as an antidote to the internet shouting factory. It
provides a platform where people with opposing views can meet and understand
each other's thinking.




