---
layout: event
title: "Knowledge Architectures: Mumbai"
location: "Mumbai, India"
participants:
- Alex Gil
- Ashish Rajadhyaksha
- Ashok Sukumaram
- Ashok Thorat
- Balazs Bodo
- Christie Davis
- Dennis Tenen
- Durba Mitra
- Jan Gerber
- Lawrence Liang
- Mara Mills
- Marcell Mars
- Namita Malhotra
- Naresh Fernandes
- Nirmala Menon
- Padmini Ray Murray
- Prashant Iyengar
- Prashant Parvatneni
- Rochelle Pinto
- Rahul Gairola
- Ratheesh Radhakrishnan
- Rohini Lakshané
- Rosemary Grennan
- Sandeep Mertia
- Sarover Zaidi
- Sean Dockray
- Sebastian Lutgert
- Shaina Anand
- Tanya Bhattacharyya
- Tomislav Medak
- Varsha Ayyar
type: workshop
images:
- dissent0.jpeg
- dissent1.jpeg
- dissent3.jpeg
- dissent2.jpeg


prompt: "We are so pleased you will be joining us for the upcoming workshop
and meeting, Knowledge Architectures, in Mumbai from July 4th through
July 6th at the Tata Institute of Social Sciences."

updates:
- date: 05/15
  type: grant
  text: "The pilot project in Mumbai, India has been funded with generous support from the President's Global Innovation Fund."

categories: events
---

## Information

This event was made possible with general support of www.mi2.hr/en;
xpmethod.plaintext.in; studio.camp; sarai.net;
leuphana.de/en/research-centers/cdc.html; maydayrooms.org; pukar.org.in; and
the Centre for Labour Studies, TISS.

## Pre-meeting workshop at CAMP: July 2 - 3rd

Some of you will be joining us for the pre-event workshop, to be held at CAMP,
located in Chuim Village at Bandra, directions
[here](http://studio.camp/directions.html).  This two-day workshop on book
digitization and shadow libraries will be held in collaboration with local
activists and experts, the Open Media Library, and Memory of the World crews.

For those of you joining us for the pre-conference, the schedule is as
follows:

### July 2nd, 11am

Scanning workshop. Practical scanning of books, photos and documents. Including
scanning workflow, and building a new scanner after the prototype at CAMP.
Evening discussion on what we need on the scanning front.

### July 3rd, 11am

Managing collections. Open Media Library, Aaaaarg, Memory of the
World, and other workflows. Closing discussion on what we need on the
collections front.

## Architectures of Knowledge workshop at TISS: July 4-6th

Most of you will be joining the workshop to be held at the Tata Institute of
Social Sciences (TISS). TISS is located at V.N. Purav Marg, Deonar, Mumbai
400088. The tentative schedule is as follows:

### Day 1, July 4
TISS, New Campus, Board Room

`09:00 - 10:00` Morning tea (Guesthouse)  
`10:30 - 11:00` Dean's welcome  
`11:00 - 13:00` Opening remarks, introductions  
`13:00 - 14:00` Lunch  
`14:00 - 17:00` Selected projects: [Sarai](http://sarai.net),
[pad.ma](http://pad.ma/), [pan.do/ra](http://pan.do/ra), [Small
Axe](http://smallaxe.net/sxarchipelagos/)  
`19:30 - 21:00` Dinner at the Guesthouse

### Day 2, July 5
TISS, New Campus, Board Room

`09:00 - 10:00` Morning tea (Guesthouse)  
`10:00 - 11:00` Selected projects: Mara and Mayday Rooms  
`11:00 - 12:00` Local Challenges discussion  
`13:00 - 14:00` Lunch  
`10:00 - 12:00` Planning session  
`18:00 - 19:30` Visit to R&R. Directions [here](http://aarandaar.net/map.html)  

### Day 3, July 6
TISS, New Campus

`18:00 - 20:00` Party at [CAMP](http://studio.camp/directions.html)

## Travel & Transportation:

If you are staying further away and plan to join the workshop, remember that
traffic can make transportation times far longer than expected. Take the
government pre-paid blue AC cabs from the airport or arrange transportation
with your hotel if you are arriving early.

## Weather:

It is monsoon season, and from all reports, this year there has been heavy
rain in Mumbai. That means all participants should be sure to bring plastic
bags or covers for their electronic devices, rain gear, and appropriate
attire, as shoes will definitely get wet from puddles.

## Accommodation:

1. Pre-Meeting (July 2-3): A number of participants is arriving for the
preliminary events at CAMP. We unfortunately do not have the budget to
reimburse accommodation for this period.

2. TISS workshop (July 3-7): We will provide housing for everyone who needs
accommodation for the period July 3rd through July 7th at the Tata Institute
of Social Sciences. We’ll be accommodating all participants in need of housing
at TISS in double occupancy dorm rooms. Please check with the front desk for
your room assignment and roommate. The nearby Fern Residency hotel is highly
recommended and is an option for those who can afford their own accommodation.

## Contacts:

Should you have any issues or need to get in contact, please feel free to
contact us. Add us on WhatsApp. Our contact information is:

| Name                      | Number               | Email                 |
|---------------------------|----------------------|-----------------------|
| Shaina Anand              |----------------------| ----------------------|
| Varsha Ayyar              | ---------------------| ----------------------|
| Tomislav Medak            | ---------------------| ----------------------|
| Durba Mitra               | ---------------------| ----------------------|
| Dennis Tenen              | ---------------------| ----------------------|

We look forward to seeing you all very soon.

Best,  
*Durba, Tom, & Dennis*


