---
layout: event
title: "Rediscovering Words and Worlds: Arabic Script Collections at Columbia University"
location: "New York, US"
participants:
- Manan Ahmed
- Abbas Amanat
- Hassan Ansari
- Sadegh Ansari
- Zeinab Azarbadegan
- Mahmood Gharai
- Maryam Ekhtiar
- Mitch Fraas
- Matthew Gillman
- Avinoam Shalem
- Kathy Ivanyi	
- Hadi Jorati
- Hossein Kamaly
- Evyn Kropf
- Boris Liebrenz
- Peter Magierski
- Brinkley Messick
- Matthew Miller
- Maria Oldal
- Sean Quimby
- Kristina Richardson
- Alexandre Roberts
- George Saliba
- Sarah Savant
- Sabine Schmidtke
- Kathryn Schwartz
- Jane Siegel
type: conference
prompt: "The 3-day workshop is set to take place on February 16-18, 2017 at Columbia University. Professor Sabine Schmidtke from the Institute for Advanced Study will conduct a keynote lecture on Thursday, Feb. 16."
categories: events
---

We encourage all participants to
**[RSVP](https://docs.google.com/a/columbia.edu/forms/d/e/1FAIpQLSeG8O_Q4PhOvKzIdO8LKJxeA85Mb7IHd6p7skqXseAT3TxVGw/viewform?c=0&w=1)**
for the conference.

## Day 1, Thursday, February 16 
Location: Butler Hall 523

* 14:00-15:30 Roundtable 1- The Making of a Digital Archive  
Chair: Manan Ahmed  
Participants: Matthew Miller, Boris Liebrenz, Sarah Savant.  
Description: This roundtable opens up the discussion on opportunities, limitations, and obstacles of creating a digital archive of Muslim World manuscripts. Our participants have been selected to bring in varied perspectives into this debate.
* 15:30-16:30 Break

* 16:30-18:00 **Keynote by Professor Sabine Schmidtke (Institute for Advanced Study, Princeton NJ)**: `Preserving, Democratizing, and Studying the World Heritage of Islamic Manuscripts.`


## Day 2, Friday, February 17
Location: Butler 523

* 9:00-9:30  **Welcome and Introductions by Professor George Saliba (Columbia)**

* 9:30-10:50  Panel 1- **Worlds of Manuscripts**  
Chair: Kathy Ivanyi  
Participants: Hassan Ansari, Alexandre Roberts, Avinoam Shalem, Kristina Richardson  
Description: This panel gives an overview of different types of manuscripts (i.e. Quranic, scientific, etc.) from the Muslim world.

* 10:50-11:00  Coffee Break

* 11:00-12:00  Panel 2- **Worlds of Lithographs**  
Chair: Hossein Kamaly  
Participants: Brinkley Messick, Abbas Amanat, Kathryn Schwartz  
Description: This panel opens the discussion on the larger context of printing in the Muslim world and emphasizes the significance of lithographs as rare books.

* 12:00-12:45  Lunch

* 12:45-13:45  Roundtable 2- **The Making of a Collection**  
Chair: Peter Magierski  
Participants: Sadegh Ansari, Mahmood Gharavi, Matthew Gillman, Zeinab Azerbadegan, Jane Siegel 
Description: This roundtable gives an overview of the Columbia collections of Muslim World Manuscripts and the evolution of the collaborative project currently underway in cataloging them. It is also an introduction to the discussion to take place in the following panel.

* 13:45-15:15  Panel 3- **The Making of an Archive**  
Chair: Brinkley Messick  
Participants: Sean Quimby, Hadi Jorati, Evyn Kropf, Mitch Fraas, Maryam Ekhtiar
Description: This panel is a discussion on different strategies employed in cataloging and publicization of multilingual and thematically varied collections. The panel is a concluding remark to all the discussions held throughout the workshop.

* 15:15-15:30  Closing Remarks by Manan Ahmed (Columbia)

_______________________________________________________________________________

## PRIVATE WORKSHOPS--- Day 3, Saturday, February 18
Location: RBML

* 9:00-10:30  Workshops

These workshops are intended to be private tutorial sessions held at RBML for
approximately 10 select graduate students per session. Participation in the
workshops is contingent upon your participation in the whole public event. The
Arabic/Persian paleography and codicology as well as the cataloging workshops
are obligatory for students to attend in order to benefit from the thematic
workshops, on either scientific or Quranic manuscripts. Please register for
the workshops
[here](https://docs.google.com/a/columbia.edu/forms/d/e/1FAIpQLSfkUpEsKNwa63HIzEbGMp0gsbLzIteGnmd-3NLG7CloNa2y2w/viewform?c=0&w=1)

**Paleography/Codicology (1)**  
Participants: Hassan Ansari  

* 10:30-10:45  Coffee at Butler 523

* 10:45- 12: 15

**Cataloguing **  
Participants: Evyn Kropf

**Paleography/Codicology (2)**  
Participants: Boris Liebrenz & Kristina Richardson

* 12:15-13:15  Lunch in Butler 523


* 13:15-14:45  
**Scientific Manuscripts**  
Participants: Alexandre Roberts & Hadi Jorati  

**Quranic Manuscripts**  
Participants: Hossein Kamaly & Brinkley Messick



## Contacts:

* Sadegh Ansari
* Zeinab Azarbadegan
* Mahmood Gharavi

## Post-Event Summation
