---
layout: event
title: "Knowledge Architectures: Lahore"
location: "Lahore, Pakistan"
participants:
type: workshop

prompt: "Knowledge Architectures Workshop is an itinerant dialogue between
scholars, activists, archivists, artists, librarians, and cultural
organizations. We are pleased to host our second meeting on March 12-13, 2018
at the Centre for Governance and Policy, IT University of the Punjab in
Lahore, Pakistan."

categories: events
---

## Rationale

What role do archives play in the making of knowledge? How are infrastructures of power, prestige, and access built in and around archives-- physical and digital? *Knowledge Architectures: Lahore* is the continuation of a long-standing intellectual concern of our Lab. We aim to think about the relationship between knowledge, physical archives, practices of mass-digitization, accessibility of digital repositories to scholars and activists across boundaries, and the power to re-think, re-mix and re-use cultural heritage. Our goals are always to argue for un-fettered access irrespective of devices or skills. We aim to empower communities to construct and re-think archival practices in frameworks true to their ethical and political selves. 

Our Workshop in Lahore will bring together scholars, activists, artists to think constructively and thoroughly about such paradigms of colonial knowledge production, national and local archival practices and the role of the citizen-artist in claiming their own pasts. We will have, in our midst, practitioners of Computer Science, Digital Humanities, History, Knowledge Activism from around the world. We look forward to the conversation.

## Participants

* Manan Ahmed (Columbia Univeristy, NY)
* Nosheen Ali (Aga Khan University, Karachi)
* Yaqoob Bangash (ITU, Lahore)
* Marcell Mars (Coventry University, UK)
* Marvi Mazhar (Marvi Mazhar & Associates, Karachi)
* Tomislav Medak (Coventry University, UK)
* Durba Mitra (Harvard University, Cambridge)
* Hira Nabi (VASL, Karachi)
* Zehra Nawab (Journalist, Karachi)
* Dennis Tenen (Columbia University, NY)
* Ryan Perkins (Stanford University, CA)




## Schedule

### Monday, March 12

`09:00-10:00` Morning tea

`10:30-11:00` Opening remarks (Tenen, Mitra)

`11:00-13:00` Roundtable: Dark Archives & Digital Access (Ahmed, Ali, Perkins)

`13:00-14:00` Lunch

`14:00-14:50` Peer librarianship (Medak)

`15:00-15:50` Memories of the World (Mars)

`16:00-16:50` Urban Archives (Nabi, Mazhar, Nawab)

`19:30-21:00` Dinner TBA  

### Tuesday, March 13

`09:00-10:00` Morning tea  

`10:30-11:30` Punjab archives (Yaqoob Bangash & Team, ITU Lahore)  

`12:00-13:00` Lunch  

`13:00-17:00` Site visits or Open workshop conversation

`19:30-21:00` Dinner TBA  

## Visa, Travel & Transportation:

TBA

## Weather:

Expect hot, sunny, dry weather with temperatures ranging between 18°C (63F)
and 26°C (79F).

## Accommodation:

Luxus Grand Hotel, 4 Egerton Road, Lahore

## Contacts:

Manan Ahmed <@sepoy>, Yaqoob Bangash <@BangashYK>

Your invitation came from one of our organizers. Please contact them
individually with any questions.
