---
layout: event
title: "Architectures of Knowledge: U Street, D.C."
location: "Washington, D.C."
type: workshop
published: true
participants:
- Ananya Chakravarti
- Tawana Petty
- Saaret Yoseph
- Medhin Paolos
- Shellée Haynesworth
- Durba Mitra
- Manan Ahmed
- Dennis Tenen
prompt: "The Knowledge Architectures workshop is an itinerant dialogue between scholars, activists, archivists, artists, librarians, and cultural organizations. We are pleased to host our third meeting on November 08-09, 2019 at Prince Hall Grand Lodge in Washington D.C. In collaboration with Georgetown University, we are funded through Georgetown Humanities Initiative Incubator Grant and HumanitiesDC Humanities Vision Partnership."
updates:
We are funded and sponsored by Georgetown Humanities Initiative Incubator Grant, HumanitiesDC Humanities Vision Partnership Grant for 2019-2020,  Prince Hall Grand Lodge. We are in collaboration with Geogretown University and Detroit Community Technology Project's [Data DiscoTech](https://www.alliedmedia.org/ddjc/discotech)
categories: events
---

We aim to begin thinking about, and building a digital archive focused on the history of U Street. We will foreground the political, ethical and intellectual implications of collating information in the modern digital economy. This ethos will  inform the technical infrastructure of the project and shape the effort to build an archive that ensures data rights are retained by the community itself. We will also host workshops for community members to learn a new skills that will be vital to the process of documenting history.

Our two-day multi-sited community fair will focus on the pasts and presents of U Street's immigrant histories, including and especially displaced former residents of the neighborhood. During this fair, we hope to begin the conversations we need to have, as a community, to build and design a collective archive and to alert stakeholders to the existence of this initiative. An important part of this project is to build horizontal solidarities and sharing knowledge with other communities undergoing similar processes of displacement and gentrification.

The main events planned so far include:

1) A Data DiscoTech to increase community data literacy hosted by the Detroit Community Technology Project.  A team led by Tawana Petty will host a variety of booths for community members to learn about digital technologies. 

2) A listening booth hosted by xpMethod to help us begin to think about oral histories of the neighborhood

3) A film screening by Medhin Paolos of her work documenting the history of the Ethiopian community in Milan. 

4) Medhin Paolos and Saaret Yoseph will lead a videography workshop for community members interested in learning how to document in this medium.

3) A presentation by Shellée Haynesworth's Black Broadway on U project; a walking tour guided by community elders; a community archiving hub; as well as events at the YMCA and other locations in the neighborhood. 
