---
layout: project
title: Unidentified Found Objects (UFOs)
tags:
- Grant Wythoff
- Dennis Tenen
- Gerard Manley Fordkins
- Kristen Gallerneaux
category: theory-method
type:
- gadget
- unsolved
snippet: 105
published: false
image: pictureofthebox.jpg
---

Scholars in all disciplines are expert knowledge workers. We are good at finding, accessing, and storing information, usually in textual form. But much of the world's knowledge is not secreted as text. It is palpable and material. Stories and histories of such objects do not usually find themselves into the history books.[^1] And we have no universal catalog of objects. No way to consult and to retrieve their material contexts (outside of museums and private collections).

What happens when we encounter an unknown object? How to incorporate it into the body knowledge? Inspired by movements like citizen science[^2] and by civic-minded uses of collective intelligence and crowd-sourcing,[^3] in this experiment, we would like to imagine something akin to "citizen scholarship" or "citizen humanities"--a methodologically rigorous way to ask the public at large for help in solving strange and fascinating mysteries confronted by historians, media theorists, and literary scholars alike.

Our first mission: to identify: GRANT FILL IN HERE. History of the object etc. Ford.

To solve the mystery of the black box we turn to the following communities:

Reddit /whatsthisthing, /askscience, and /askhistorians. Stack Overflow and History Stack Exchange. Ask MetaFilter.

[^1]: That is not to say there are such things as material histories. It is just few objects make it into the written record.
[^3]: <http://papers.ssrn.com/sol3/papers.cfm?abstract_id=2377016>
[^2]: <http://www.scientificamerican.com/citizen-science/>
