---
layout: project
title: "Distributed Agency in the Organizational Novel"
tags:
- Dennis Yi Tenen
category: literary-modeling-and-visualization-lab
type: research paper
snippet: 150
published: true
image: airport-heatmap.png
updates:

- date: 2018-04-02
  type: talk
  text: "\"Character and Agency in Arthur Hailey’s *Airport*.\" Talk by invitation at the Harvard NHC Novel Theory seminar on April 2, 2018."

---

In this paper I discuss the question of institutional agency more narrowly, on
the basis of a literary genre principally concerned with trans-human,
organizational actors. The readings will occasion a model of agency more
broadly, which besides its exploratory, theoretical potential will find its
application in a method for extracting literary characters. State-of-the-art
methods for detecting literary characters often rely on features such as named
entities (i.e. Heathcliff), gender attributes, and evidence of direct speech
or sentience.[^1] The house in *Bleak House* (1952--1853) by Charles Dickens, the
wheat and the Railroad Commission in *The Octopus*
(1901) by Frank Norris, and the airport in Arthur Hailey's *Airport* (1968)
       are not characters by these measures. Yet we intuit them to act vitally
and to exert an almost hypnotic influence on the action of the novel: "a
strange beast that pertains to no one in particular and who is nobody's
responsibility."[^2]

Major spoiler alert: "This is Bleak House. This day I give this house its
little mistress," John says to Esther as the narrative gaze soars to observe
the scene in its totality, describing, in a single majestic sweep of a
sentence and paragraph, the orchards, the streams, the town nearby, the rooms
inside, the colonnades, walls, and the furniture of the house, "the
arrangement of all the pretty little objects [...] my odd little ways
everywhere." "You should have married the airport, not me," Cindy, the wife of
the airport's general manager (Mel), says bitterly to her often absent
husband. "Ah, yes, the Wheat," the narrator of *The Octopus* concludes:

> As if human agency could affect this colossal power! What were these heated,
> tiny squabbles, this feverish, small bustle of mankind, this minute swarming
> of the human insect, to the great, majestic, silent ocean of the Wheat
> itself!  Indifferent, gigantic, resistless, it moved in its appointed
> grooves. Men, Liliputians, gnats in the sunshine, buzzed impudently in their
> tiny battles, were born, lived through their little day, died, and were
> forgotten; while the Wheat, wrapped in Nirvanic calm, grew steadily under
> the night, alone with the stars and with God.

Such emergent senses of volition, characteristic of trans-human agents,
presents a particular challenge to formalization. Our problem is two-fold:
first, to conceptualize agency in a way that would encompass small bustles and
large---Johns, Cindys, Mels, and Esthers, gnats and oceans of wheat, giants
and lilliputians, bleak houses and their mistresses, airports and their
general managers. Second, it would be helpful to be able to recognize a range
of human and trans-human agents programmatically, both in order to discern a
genre---an aggregation of texts---which does not simply address institutions
thematically but in which institutions and natural forces play an active role.
The former leads to a theory of character agency and the latter to a method
for character extraction and analysis.

[^1]: He, Barbosa, and Kondrak, “Identification of Speakers in Novels”; Coll Ardanuy and Sporleder, “Structure-Based Clustering of Novels”; Vala et al., “Mr. Bennet, His Coachman, and the Archbishop Walk into a Bar but Only One of Them Gets Recognized”; Iyyer et al., “Feuding Families and Former Friends.”

[^2]: Latour, *Reassembling the Social*, 44.
