---
layout: project
title: Possessed by Property
tags:
- Beth Cortese
- Julie Hastrup-Markussen
- Ross Deans Kristensen-McLachlan
- Jakob Ladegaard
- Dennis Yi Tenen
category: lit-mod-viz
type: research paper
snippet: 185
published: true
image: clarissa.jpg
updates:

---

> And now, with regard to the worldly matters which I shall die possessed of, as well as to
those which of right appertain to me, either by the will of my said grandfather, or otherwise;
thus do I dispose of them. -- Samuel Richardson: Clarissa, Vol. 9, letter XXXIII.

The reading of the grandfather’s will in Samuel Richardson’s Clarissa sets in motion a crisis
of ownership in which Clarissa’s ‘father’s living will’ seeks to control her ‘grandfather’s
dead one’ (Vol. 1, letter XLIV). Clarissa becomes estranged from her family when she inherits
an estate from her grandfather, who thereby bypasses her father and uncles as well as her
siblings. The novel ends with Clarissa’s will and the distribution of property, guilt and moral
justice after her death. Bracketed by these two last wills, the novel can be read as a
prolonged reflection on the relationship between possession of property, inheritance and
agency. Using computational tools this project investigates the novel’s gendered models of
property possession and transference through inheritance along with the posthumous agency of
the testator through the last will. We read the novel’s property relations in the context of
legal history as well as contemporary philosophical discussions of property to analyse the way
in which fiction departs from legal practice. Richardson’s Clarissa interrogates the stability
of possession of property and of the self through sentimental discourse which stages a conflict
of wills between the agency of the dead and that of living.

This project is a collaboration between Columbia English Department's [Literary Modeling and
Visualization Lab](https://xpmethod.plaintext.in/projects/literary-modeling.html) and the
[Unearned Wealth](http://projects.au.dk/unearned-wealth/) research project at the Department of
Comparative Literature, Aarhus University, Denmark.



